# MDPlayer
Player for VGM files, etc. (Performance tool with emulation of Mega Drive sound chips, etc.)  
  
[Summary]  
  This tool plays VGM files while displaying the keyboard.  
  (NRD,XGM,S98,MID,RCP,RCS,NSF,GBS,HES,SID,AY,MGS,MDR,MDX,MND,ZMD,ZMS,MUC,MUB,M,M2,MZ,MPI,MVI,MZI,OPI,OVI,OZI,WAV,MP3,AIFF files are also supported.)  
  
[NOTE]  
  The author has given us permission to include SCCI2 in the package. However, if you want to include SCCI2 when you distribute binaries by Forking, etc., please ask for permission separately.  
  
  Please refer to README_AST.md/README_AST_EN.md for FileAssociationTool (file association setting tool).  
  
  Be careful of the volume during playback. Noise caused by bugs may be played back at a high volume.  
  (Especially when trying a file that has never been played before or when updating the program.)  
  
  If you find any problems while using the program, please contact us at the following address.  
    Twitter(@kumakumakumaT_T)  
    Github Issues(https://github.com/kuma4649/MDPlayer/issues)  
  !!! IMPORTANT!!!  
  To the authors of VGMPlay, NRTDRV and other great software,  
  Please do not contact the authors of VGMPlay, NRTDRV, and other great software directly about MDPlayer.  
  However, we will do our best to accommodate you, but we may not be able to do so in all cases. We appreciate your understanding.  
  
[Supported formats]  
  .VGM (so-called vgm files)  
  .VGZ (gziped vgm file)  
  .NRD (driver performance file to play 2 OPMs and AY8910 on NRTDRV X1)  
  .XGM (file for MegaDrive)  
  .ZGM (VGM extended format files that can be generated by mml2vgm)  
  .S98 (files mainly for Japanese retro PCs)  
  .MID (StandardMIDI files. Format 0/1 supported)  
  .RCP (Recopon files CM6,GSD can be sent)  
  .RCS (A file that can play the above RCP and also pronounce PCM8)  
  .NSF (NES Sound Format)  
  .GBS (Gameboy Sound Format)  
  .HES (HES file)  
  .SID (file for Commodore)  
  .AY (Files for ZX Spectrum / Amstrad CPC)  
  .MGS (MGSDRV file, requires MGSDRV.COM to play)  
  .BGM (MuSICA file, requires KINROU5.DRV to play)  
  .MDR (Driver file to play MoonSound(OPL4) in MoonDriver MSX)  
  .MDX (files for MXDRV)  
  .MND (MNDRV X68000(OPM,OKIM6258) & Marquee Yunit(OPNAx2) driver performance files)  
  .MUC (File for MUCOM88Windows)  
  .MUB (file for MUCOM88Windows)  
  .M (file for PMD)  
  .M2 (file for PMD)  
  .MZ (file for PMD)  
  .MPI (file for FMP, requires FMC.EXE, FMP.COM to play)    
  .MVI (File for FMP, requires FMC.EXE,FMP.COM to play)    
  .MZI (FMP file, requires FMC.EXE,FMP.COM to play)    
  .OPI (file for FMP, requires FMP.COM to play)    
  .OVI (file for FMP, requires FMP.COM to play)    
  .OZI (file for FMP, requires FMP.COM to play)    
  .ZMS (File for ZMUSIC2/3, requires ZMUSIC.X,ZMC.X,ZMSC3.X to play)    
  .ZMD (File for ZMUSIC3, requires ZMC.X,ZMSC3.X to play)    
  .ZMD (file for ZMUSIC2, requires ZMUSIC.X to play)    
  .WAV (audio file)  
  .MP3 (audio file)  
  .AIF (Audio file)  
  .M3U (playlist)  
  
[機能、特徴]  
[Features.]  
  Currently, it can emulate the following Mega Drive sound chips for playback.  
     
      AY8910 , YM2612(YM3438) , SN76489 , RF5C164 , PWM , C140(C219) , OKIM6295 , OKIM6258(including PCM8,MPCM)  
      SEGAPCM , YM2151 , YM2203 , YM2413 , YM2608 , YM2609 , YM2610/B 
      HuC6280 , C352     
      K054539 , NES_APU , NES_DMC , NES_FDS , MMC5 , FME7 , N160 , VRC6 , VRC7 , MultiPCM  
      VRC7 , MultiPCM , YMF262 , YMF271 , YMF278B , YMZ280B , DMG , QSound  
      , S5B , GA20 , X1-010 , SAA1099
      YMF271 , RF5C68 , SID , Y8950 , YM3526 , YM3812 , K053260 , K051649(K052539)  
  
  The following keyboard displays are currently available.  
     
      YM2612(YM3438), SN76489 , RF5C164  
      AY8910 , C140(C219) , C352 , SEGAPCM , K054539 , GA20 , OKIM6295 , OKIM6258(including PCM8,MPCM)  
      Y8950 , YM2151 , YM2203 , YM2413 , YM2608 , YM2609 , YM2610/B 
      YM3526 , YM3812     
      YMF262 , YMF278B , YMZ280B , MultiPCM   
      , HuC6280 , MIDI       
      NES_APU&DMC , NES_FDS , MMC5 , N106(N163) , VRC6 , VRC7 , PPZ8    
  
      Left-click on a channel (keyboard) to mask it.  
      Right-clicking unmasks all channels.  
      (Some of them are not supported at various levels.)  
    　Clicking 'ch' in each keyboard display window toggles the mask at once.  


      You can automatically open the keyboard keys to be used based on the information in the file to be played.  
      (Up to two identical keys can be displayed, but only one MIDI keyboard will be opened.)  
  
  The file is created in C#.  
  
  It is created in C#. - The source code of VGMPlay, MAME, and DOSBOX is 
  
  The source code of VGMPlay, MAME, and DOSBOX is referenced and ported.  
  
  The source code of FMGen is referenced and ported.  
  
  The source code of NSFPlay is referenced and ported.  
  
  The source code of NEZ Plug++ is referenced and ported.  
  
  The source code of libsidplayfp is referenced and ported.  
  
  The source code of sidplayfp is referenced and ported.  
  
  The source code of YMEmuWithFilters is referenced and ported.  

  The source code of NRTDRV is referenced and ported.  
  
  Referencing and porting the source code of MoonDriver.  
  
  The source code of MXP is referenced and ported.  
  
  The source code of MXDRV is referenced and ported.  
  
  The source code of MNDRV is referenced and ported.  
  
  The source code of X68Sound is referenced and ported.  
  (Both m_puusan's/rururutan's version)  
  
  The source code of PMD is referenced and ported.  
  
  The code of MGSDRV is used as a reference.  
  
  Referring to the code of MuSICA.  
  
  Referring to the code of FMP.  
  
  The code of run68 is used as a reference.  
  
  Referring to the code of ZMUSICv2/v3.  

  The output of CVS.EXE is used as a reference to adjust the output so that the same data is output.  
  
  The same data is output from CVS.EXE.  
  SPPCM is also supported.  
  SCCI2 must be configured with scci2config.exe.  
  
  It is possible to playback from real YM2608,YM2151,YMF262 by using GIMIC(C86ctl).  
  
  Z80dotNet is used.  
  
  The buttons are in the following order.  
     
     Settings, Stop, Pause, Fade Out, Previous Track, 1/4 Speed Play, Play, 4x Speed Play, Next Track,  
     Play Mode, Open File, Playlist,  
     Information panel display, mixer panel display, panel list display, VSTeffect settings, MIDI keyboard display, change display magnification  
  
  Left-clicking on OPN, OPM, or OPL voice parameters copies the voice parameters to the clipboard as text.  
  The format of the parameters can be changed from the option settings.  
     
      FMP7 , MDX, MUCOM88(MUSIC LALF), NRTDRV, HuSIC, MML2VGM, .TFI, MGSC, .DMP, .OPNI  
  
  If you select .TFI / .DMP / .OPNI, it outputs to a file instead of the 
  
  The performance data of YM2612(YM3438) and YM2151 can be output as a MIDI file, although the quality is not so good.  
  If VOPMex is used, it is possible to reflect the voice information of FM sound sources.  
  (VOPMex, not VOPM. ;-P )  
  
  PCM data can be dumped, but only SEGAPCM outputs in WAV.  
  
  It is possible to export the performance as wav.  
  
  VSTi can be specified as MIDI sound source.  
  
  Playback, stop, and other operations can be performed from the keyboard or MIDI keyboard.  
  
  Files with the same name (Text, MML, Image) with different extensions can be opened from the playlist.  
  
  Unique functions are added to VGM/VGZ files.  
      Dual performance of RF5C164  
      Lyrics display  

  ∙ Enabled to operate MDPlayer using mdc.exe from command line ∙ Added the ability to open MDPlayer from command line ∙ Added the ability to open MDPlayer from command line  
  mdc.exe is mainly used to operate MDPlayer from STREAM DECK or editor.  
        The mdc.exe command is as follows  
            PLAY [file].  
            STOP [file  
            NEXT  
            PREV  
            FADEOUT  
            FAST  
            SLOW  
            PAUSE  
            CLOSE  
            LOOP  
            MIXER  
            INFO  
  
  When a file is specified at startup from the command line, it is read in and played back.  
    Normally, the specified file is added to the playlist, but if the “-PL-” option is specified, it is not added.  
      Example)
        MDPlayerx64.exe sample.vgm  
          Load sample.vgm at startup and start playback. Add it to the playlist.
        MDPlayerx64.exe -PL- sample.vgm
          Load sample.vgm at startup and start playback. However, it is not added to the playlist.

[Somewhat confusing operation] ・Title bar of each window is displayed.  
  Double-click (toggle) the title bar of each window to always display it in the front.  
　When the application is launched while holding down the Shift key, the window position can be initialized.  
　On the OPN series keyboard, you can mute each SLOT by holding down the Shift key and clicking FM3OP1~4. (but only for carriers).  

  
[Slightly confusing setting item].  
  Options] window > [other] tab > [Search paths on additional file].  
    If you enter a path in this text box,  
    If you enter a path in this text box, additional files that are referenced when playing back song data will be searched in that location.  
    Multiple paths can be enumerated with a ; delimiter.  
    Additional files to be searched for each driver are as follows  
      Recomposer (.RCP)  
        .CM6 / .GSD  
      MoonDriver(.MDR)  
        .PCM  
      MXDRV(.MDX)  
        .PDX  
      MNDRV(.MND)  
        .PND  
    In the case of PMDDotNET, the path specified by the PMD environment variable is referenced.  

  To read .CM6 .GSD when playing a recomposer (.RCP) file  
    GSD, it is necessary to select LA, GS, and the sound source type appropriately at the time of MIDI device setting on the setting screen.  

  When playing X68000 series files (.MDX .ZMS .ZMD .RCS), PCM playback driver (PCM8, PCM8PP, MPCM, MPCMPP) must be selected appropriately.  
    (Because these do not have the means to have the optimal driver automatically selected from the data.)   
  
[G.I.M.I.C. related information].  
  About SSG volume  
    SSG volume can be adjusted using the “G.OPN” and “G.OPNA” faders at the bottom right of the mixer screen.  
    G.OPN -> YM220, respectively.  
      G.OPN -> G.I.M.I.C. module set to YM2203 (Pri/Sec)  
      G.OPNA -> G.I.M.I.C. module set to YM2608 (Pri/Sec)  
    The setting information is sent to the G.I.M.I.C. module set to YM2608(Pri/Sec).  
    Note that the settings are transmitted only when playback starts.  
    Therefore, even if the fader is moved during playback, the value will not be reflected immediately.  
    The initial values are,  
      .muc(mucom88) -> 63 (equivalent to PC-8801-11)  
      .mub(mucom88) -> 63 (equivalent to PC-8801-11)  
      .mnd(MNDRV) -> 31 (Equivalent to PC-9801-86)  
      .s98 -> 31 (Equivalent to PC-9801-86)  
      .vgm -> 31 (PC-9801-86 equivalent)  
    The following is a list of the drivers and files.  
    Adjust the balance for each driver or file as needed,  
    Save the file (right-click on the mixer screen to display the save menu).  
    
    The following performance files can also be set automatically by identifying the tags described in the file (TBD).
    
    .S98 file  
    If the character “8801” is found in the “system” tag, MDPlayer will set “63”.  
    If it finds the character “9801”, MDPlayer sets “31”.  
    If both are found, priority is given to “8801”.  
    If not found, it will be set to the value set on the mixer screen.  
    
    .vgm file  
    If the character “8801” is found in the “systemname” or “systemnamej” tag, MDPlayer sets “63”.  
    If it finds the character “9801”, MDPlayer will set the value to “31”.  
    If both are found, priority is given to “8801”.  
    If not found, the value will be set to the value set on the mixer screen.  
    
    
  About Frequency  
    The module frequency (master clock of the chip) is set for each file format.  
    The setting values are as follows.  
      .vgm -> use the value set in the file  
      .s98 -> use the value set in the file  
      .mub(mucom88) -> OPNA:7987200Hz  
      .muc(mucom88) -> OPNA:7987200Hz  
      .nrd(NRTDRV) -> OPM:40000000000Hz  
      .mdx(MXDRV) -> OPM:40000000000Hz  
      .mnd(MNDRV) -> OPM:40000000000Hz OPNA:8000000Hz  
      .mml(PMD) -> OPNA:7987200Hz  
      .m(PMD) -> OPNA:7987200Hz  
      .m2(PMD) -> OPNA:7987200Hz  
      .mz(PMD) -> OPNA:7987200Hz  
      .opi(FMP) -> OPNA:7987200Hz  
      .ovi(FMP) -> OPNA:7987200Hz  
      .ozi(FMP) -> OPNA:7987200Hz  
  
  
[Required operating environment]  
  Windows7(64bit) or later OS. I am using Windows11Home(x64).  
  It does not work on XP.  
  
  NET8 must be installed.  
  
  Visual Studio 2012 Update 4 Visual C++ Redistributable Package must be installed.  
  
  Microsoft Visual C++ 2015 Redistributable(x86) - 14.0.23026 must be installed.  
  
  If you want to use LZH files, you need to install UNLHA32.DLL (Ver. 3.0 or later).  
  
  An audio device capable of playing audio is required.  
  The UCA222 that came as an extra with the UMX250 is sufficient. I used this one.  
  
  SPFM Light (SCCI2 version) + YM2612 (YM3438) + YM2608 + YM2151 + SPPCM if available  
  
  GIMIC + YM2608 + YM2151 if available  
  
  When emulating YM2608, the following audio file is required to play the rhythm sound.  
  We are sorry, but we leave
      Bass Drum 2608_BD.WAV  
      Hi-Hat 2608_HH.WAV  
      Rim Shot 2608_RIM.WAV  
      Snare drum 2608_SD.WAV  
      Tam Tam 2608_TOM.WAV  
      Top Cymbal 2608_TOP.WAV  
      (44.1KHz 16bitPCM mono uncompressed Microsoft WAVE format file)  
    If the above file exists at the same location as the song file, it will be read and pronounced.  
    This is useful when you want to change the rhythm sound independently.  
  
  When emulating YMF278B, the following ROM file is required to play the MoonSound sound.  
  Sorry, we leave the creation method to you.  
  	yrw801.rom  
  
  The following ROM file is required for C64 emulation.  
  We are sorry, but we leave the creation method to you.  
  	Kernal , Basic , Character  

  CPU is fast there.  
  The amount of processing you need depends on the Chip you use and other factors.  
  I am using i7-9700K 3.6GHz.  
  
  The following files are required to play MGSDRV files.  
  (I have included them in advance, but if you need them, please get them from the official website.)
    MGSDRV.COM  

  The following files are required to play the MuSICA files.  
  (The files are included in the package beforehand, but if you need them, please obtain them from the official site.)
    KINROU5.DRV  

  To play FMP files, the following files are required.  
  (Please obtain from the official site, VECTOR, etc.)
    FMP.COM  
    FMC.EXE  
    PPZ8.COM  

  To play ZMUSICv2 files, the following files are required.  
  (Please obtain from the official website, VECTOR, etc.)
    ZMUSIC.X  

  To play ZMUSICv3 files, the following files are required.  
  (Please obtain from the official site, etc.)
    ZMC.X  
    ZMSC3.X  

  The following files are required to play from the real chip using SCCI2.  
  (Please obtain from the official website or other sources.)
    scci2.dll  
    scci2config.exe  
  
[Practice of synchronization]  
    
  I have been trying to synchronize SCCI2/GIMIC (C86ctl) and emulation (abbreviated as EMU hereafter) sounds.  
  It depends on the environment, so I do not know what the right answer is.  
      
    First, select the device to be used for audio output from the “Output” tab.  
    The recommended pattern is to select “WasapiOut” and “Share” or “ASIO”. 2.  
      
    2. Select a delay time of 50ms or 100ms. Press “OK” once to play a song that uses only EMU, and then press “OK” again.  
    Confirm that the sound is not rough or noisy.  
    (If it does not play back nicely, set the delay time one level higher). 3.  
      
    3. From the “Sound” tab, select SCCI for YM2612 (YM3438) and select the module to be used.  
    SCCI only  
    Check the checkboxes “Send Wait Signal” and “Emulate PCM only”.  
    If “Emulate PCM only” is checked, only PCM emulation will be performed.  
    If the “Emulate PCM only” checkbox is not checked, PCM data will be sent to SCCI, but the sound quality and tempo will not be stable.  
    If “Send Wait Signal” is checked, the SCCI tempo seems to stabilize.  
    However, if “Double wait” is checked, the PCM sound quality improves, but the tempo tends to be unstable.  
      
    For the delayed group, set SCCI/GIMIC and EMU to 0 ms, and check the “Wait for Day Mode” checkbox.  
    The “opportunistic mode” is used, for example, when there is a large load during a performance and the SCCI/GIMIC playback and the EMU playback are far apart.  
    This function adjusts the SCCI/GIMIC playback speed to reduce the discrepancy. However, the (intended) misalignment set by delayed playback will be maintained.  
      
    5. Play a song in which both SCCI/GIMIC and EMU are used, and carefully check which one sounds first.  
    Increase the delay time of the one being played first among SCCI/GIMIC and EMU and play back the song to check.  
      
    Repeat steps 6.5 until there is no more discrepancy and the synchronization process is complete. Enjoy!  
      
    7. Regarding the performance gap between SCCI and GIMIC.  
    If SCCI is fast, adjust the delay setting item of SCCI.  
    If GIMIC is too fast, adjust the delay setting item of GIMIC.  
  
[Practice of MIDI keyboard]  
  If you have a MIDI keyboard, you can use it to play from YM2612(YM3438)(EMU).  
  This function is mainly provided to support MML typing.  
  (Some functions are still in the process of being implemented and are not available at this time.)  
  
  How to use for now  
      
    1. select the MIDI keyboard you want to use on the setup screen. 2.  
       
    Send (CC:97) during playback of YM2612 (YM3438) data.  
        The voice of 1Ch of YM2612(YM3438) will be set to all channels. 3.  
       
    All you have to do is play.  
    
  Main functions  
      
    1. tone data capture  
      Clicking on the tone data section of each OPN or OPM sound source or keyboard display  
      The tone data is copied to the selected channel. 2.  
      
    2. performance mode switching  
      MONO mode (single channel playback) and POLY mode (multiple channels playback)  
      POLY mode (play using multiple channels (up to 6 channels)).  
      MONO mode  
      MONO mode: Short phrases are played during recording and output as MML.  
      POLY Mode Assumed to be used to check chords during recording. 3.  
      
    3. channel note log  
      Up to 100 notes can be recorded per channel. 4.  
      
    4. channel note log MML conversion function  
      Clicking on the log field copies the pronunciation record to the clipboard as MML.  
      Note lengths are not output. The corresponding command is c d e f g a b o < >.  
      Octave information is specified absolutely with the o command for the first note only,  
      After that, the octave information is expanded by relative specification using the < command > command.  
  
    5. saving and loading tones  
      It is possible to save or load 256 types of tones in memory.  
      The data can be output to or loaded from a file in a specified format.  
      The following software formats can be used for saving and loading.  
        FMP7  
        MUCOM88(MUSIC LALF/mucomMD2vgm)  
        NRTDRV  
        MXDRV  
        mml2vgm  
      
    6. simple voice editing (TBD)  
      After selecting the parameter you want to enter, you can edit it by entering numerical values.  
      
  Keyboard (TBD)  
      
    Keyboard (TBD)  
      Displays the note being played. 1.  
      
    1. MONO  
      Click to switch to MONO mode. When it is switched, the icon changes to â  
      
    POLY  
      Click to switch to POLY mode. When the mode is switched, the icon will change to a♪ icon. 3.  
      
    3. PANIC  
      Transmits key-off to all channels. (This is used when the sound continues to play.)  
      
    4．L.CLS  
      Clears the note log for all channels.  
      
    5．TP.PUT  
      Saves the selected channel's tone to the TonePallet (tone storage area in memory).  
      
    6. TP.GET  
      Loads a tone from the TonePallet to the selected channel.  
      
    7.T.SAVE  
      Saves a TonePallet to a file.  
      
    T.LOAD  
      Loads a TonePallet from a file.  
      
    9. voice data (for 6 channels)  
      Click “-” or “♪” to select or deselect a channel.  
      Right-click on a parameter to change it. (TBD)  
      Left-clicking on a parameter displays a context menu.  
        Copy : Copies the clicked tone to the clipboard.  
        Paste : Pastes the clicked tone from the clipboard to the clicked tone.  
        The text format used in the above functions can be changed by clicking the software name in the FORMAT column.  
        Copy and paste can also be performed with keystrokes. In this case, the selected channel is the target.  
        Note that the format is not automatically detected when pasting.  
      Clicking the “â” next to “LOG” will clear the note log for that channel.  
      Clicking “LOG” sets the MML data to the clipboard.  
      
  Operation from MIDI keyboard  
    The following are default settings. (Can be customized in the settings. It is also possible to set the setting value to blank so that it is not used.)  
      
    CC:97(DATA DEC)  
      Copies the 1Ch tone of YM2612 (YM3438) to all channels. (Selection status ignored)  
      
    CC:96(DATA INC)  
      Deletes one most recent log. (function to cancel playing mistakes, etc.)  
      
    CC:66(SOSTENUTO)  
      In MONO mode only, the log of the selected line is converted to MML and set to the clipboard.  
      Difference from processing at screen click  
        Sends Ctrl+V (paste) keystroke.  
        Clears the note log of the selected channel.  
        The first octave command is not output.  
      
      
[SpecialThanks]  
  We are indebted to the following people for this tool. We also refer to and use the following software and web pages.  
  Thank you very much. 
    ・ラエル さん  
    ・とぼけがお さん  
    ・HI-RO さん  
    ・餓死3 さん  
    ・おやぢぴぴ さん  
    ・osoumen さん  
    ・なると さん  
    ・hex125 さん  
    ・Kitao Nakamura さん  
    ・くろま さん  
    ・かきうち さん  
    ・ぼう☆きち さん  
    ・dj.tuBIG/MaliceX さん  
    ・じごふりん さん  
    ・WING さん  
    ・そんそん さん  
    ・欧場豪 さん  
    ・sgq1205 さん  
    ・千霧＠ぶっちぎりP(but80) さん  
    ・ひぽぽ さん  
    ・Ichiro Ota さん  

    ・Visual Studio Community 2015/2017  
    ・MinGW/msys  
    ・gcc  
    ・SGDK  
    ・VGM Player  
    ・Git  
    ・SourceTree  
    ・さくらエディター  
    ・VOPMex  
    ・NRTDRV  
    ・MoonDriver  
    ・MXP  
    ・MXDRV  
    ・MNDRV  
    ・MPCM  
    ・X68Sound  
    ・hoot  
    ・XM6 TypeG  
    ・ASLPLAY  
    ・NAUDIO  
    ・VST.NET  
    ・NSFPlay  
    ・CVS.EXE  
    ・KeyboardHook3.cs  
    ・MUCOM88  
    ・MUCOM88windows  
    ・C86ctlのソース  
    ・MGSDRV  
    ・Z80dotNET  
    ・blueMSX  
    ・FMP  
    ・PPZ8  
    ・ZMUSICv2/v3    
    ・RCSMP  
     
    ・SMS Power!  
    ・DOBON.NET  
    ・Wikipedia  
    ・GitHub  
    ・ぬるり。  
    ・Gigamix Online  
    ・MSX Datapack wiki化計画  
    ・MSX Resource Center  
    ・msxnet  
    ・Xyzさんのツイートのリンク先(https://twitter.com/XyzGonGivItToYa/status/1216942514902634496?s=20)  
    ・がんず Work's Diary  
    ・pastraider.com(https://www.pastraiser.com/cpu/gameboy/gameboy_opcodes.html)  
    ・Pan Docs(http://bgb.bircd.org/pandocs.htm#memorymap)  
    ・プラスウイングTV(https://youtu.be/p13EdWrQFjY?si=2L93LDE6SyvINzXX)  


[FAQ]  
  
  The system does not start up.  
  
    Case 1  
      An error occurs during startup because a zone identifier has been added to the file.  
    Zone identifiers are one of the protective functions of the OS, and are automatically added to files downloaded from the Internet to prevent unintended file execution.  
    However, if a file is downloaded with the intention of executing it, it will be interfered with as in this case.  
    →Double-click on the file removeZoneIdent.bat to run it.  
    This batch file removes zone identifiers in bulk.  
    The following message will be displayed.  
        Unknown error occurred.  
        Exception Message: Could not load file or assembly.  
        Could not load file or assembly  
        'file://.... .dll' or one of its dependencies,Operation is not supported.  
        (Exception from HRESULT:xxxx) 

    Case2  
      This problem mainly occurs when using a real chip, because SCCI2 is in a state to use c86ctl.  
    MDPlayer also uses c86ctl, so they will fight each other and fail to boot.  
    →Please use scci2config.exe to uncheck “enable” of c86ctl setting item.  
    
    Case3  
      NETframework version.  
    →NETframework.  
    NETframework.  
        Unknown error occurred.  
        Exception Message: Could not load file or assembly.  
        Could not load file or assembly  
        'netstandard, Version=... , Culture=... , PublicKeyToken=...' or one of its dependencies. The specified file cannot be found.    
  
    CaseX  
      TBD  
  
  
  The tempo is unstable, the beginning of the song is not played at the start of a performance, or the song is fast-forwarded.  
  
    Case 1  
      This mainly occurs when using real chips. The real chip takes some time to process at the start of a performance.  
    On the other hand, the emulation chip completes the process immediately.  
    This is because the real chip tries to catch up with the emulation to close the time gap.  
    →In the “Options” screen: “Sound” tab: Uncheck the “Hiyori” checkbox in the lower left corner.  
    CaseX  
      TBD  
  
  
  The sound is choppy. The display is very heavy.  
  
    Case 1  
    This case occurs when all necessary processing is not completed within a limited time.  
    Open the “Output” tab from the “Options” screen and switch the device.  
    We recommend that you try different devices as it depends on your environment.  
    Wasapi and ASIO often give the best response.  
    Depending on the device, adjusting the “Latency (render buffer)” value may improve the response.  
  
    CaseX  
      TBD  
  
  When played on a real chip, some PCM sounds are not quite right.  

    PCM sounds sound strange when played on real chips, such as YM2612 (YM3438) or PCM playback by SSG, because accurate interrupt processing is not possible.  
  
[copyright and disclaimer]  
  MDPlayer is licensed under the GPLv3 license, see LICENSE.txt.  
  The copyright is owned by the author.  
  This software is provided “as is” without warranty of any kind, and the author assumes no responsibility for any damages resulting from the use of this software.  
  The author assumes no responsibility for any damages resulting from the use of this software.  
  Also, the copyright notice and this permission notice are not required for this software.  
  The source code of the following software is ported and modified for C# or used as is.  
  These sources and software are copyrighted by their respective authors. Please refer to the respective documents for the license.  
  
  ・VGMPlay  
  ・MAME  
  ・DOSBOX  
  ・FMGen  
  ・NSFPlay  
  ・NEZ Plug++  
  ・libsidplayfp  
  ・sidplayfp  
  ・NRTDRV  
  ・MoonDriver  
  ・MXP  
  ・MXDRV  
  ・MNDRV  
  ・X68Sound  
  (m_puusanさん/rururutanさん版両方)  
  ・MUCOM88  
  ・MUCOM88windows(mucomDotNET)  
  ・M86(M86DotNET)  
  ・VST.NET  
  ・NAudio  
  ・SCCI  
  ・c86ctl  
  ・PMD(PMDDotNET)  
  ・MGSDRV  
  ・勤労5号  
  ・Z80dotNet  
  ・mucom88torym2612  
  ・FMP  
  ・PPZ8  
  ・ZMUSICv2  
  ・ZMUSICv3  
  
  
  